And all the wild ones, all jungle. And we'd see
kangaroos, lots of them. And somebody had a horse
out there, and this horse had a, its back looked
like it was broken or something. It had a, you know,
a dip like this. And we knew it was the G.I. that had
gone over there with a paint, a can of white paint,
and for twenty grand. Remember there was a race car
that was twenty grand? And we just said, boy,
someone's been up there ahead of us. And so
finally, We went to Brisbane, Brisbane,
Australia. Well, we didn't stop there. We had to go
farther up, and we noticed that the black G.I.s,
they either were They had them fixing up pontoon
bridges to get across some river or body of water.
And the other truck drivers were water master. And
boy, I tell you, there was a shortage of food, a
shortage of everything in Australia. So the black
drivers, you know, they started to meet some of the
women there. And they used this when they found out
that they needed this. We'd go over there and
somebody had brooms that weren't available and
canned food. And so it wasn't long before those
black guys were fraternizing with the women. And
we went to a movie. It was only at night. Couldn't go
any daytime. And went to see a black GI with a white
woman. And the woman would have had a baby. And they
were sitting there, and they had the baby covered
so nobody could see that it was black, you know. But
mixed up with that, I mean, hey, that's the way it
goes. And we didn't make too. So then we got to
Townsville, Australia. And that was our base. And
so we had a supply depot there, and it came over from
Kelly. It was the fourth air depot.
They had all kind of supplies, you know. By that I
mean they had tools, carpenter's tools, anything
that was needed to set up a camp, pipe, fittings,
this kind of thing. And so it was pretty good. And
you were in the Army Air Corps. That's right.
Officially. United States Army Air Corps. And how
long were you all in Australia? I think it was about
a year. And then where? We moved up to Port Moresby
in New Guinea. In New Guinea. And how long there?
Well, we kept moving. We were there at Moresby
maybe six or eight months. And then we moved on to
Dubbedura and to the Markham Valley down toward
L.A. L.A.E. L.A.E.
But we didn't go to L.A. Instead we went north to
Hollandia. New Guinea is divided Papua on the
bottom half and Dutch New Guinea at the top.
So it was It was just a supply organization because
we were handling small arms and also we were taking
ammunition. And we had to set up ammunition dumps.
So you're down there in the South Pacific through
the end of the war? Oh, yes. All right. Yes. So after
there, MacArthur had ordered a new move, come out
And we went to Biak, B-I-A-K. And there was a
Japanese bastion, if you will. And there was a lot
of caves. And they would use P-38s and P-40s to
strafe those holes or these openings, see,
because they'd bring out their cannon. and they
fired and then they cut it back inside, you see. So
we had to use those planes because we couldn't
climb up there. It was too steep. So we were out
there on Biak setting up a bomb dump. I remember
this because that's when we started getting
opposition. We
had to set up revetments. We had bulldozers in our
company, so we had to put up revetments to prevent
the ammunition to blow up because of a fire. Okay?
And we were working 24 hours a day. And at night we
had some portable lamps. And we knew that the
Japanese were watching us. And so at night the
Japanese would come out, because MacArthur was
bypassing some of those islands. And those
Japanese stragglers were, they were starving.
and they'd sneak into our camp area. And we had our
laundry on the line, next morning it was gone. And
we had a tent where we were storing canned goods,
and we knew somebody had been here. So we'd lay for
them at night, and we never could catch them. And
even though The lights were, the moon, there was
plenty of light. It was almost like early morning.
You could see.
Our orders were, it says, when you retire, you stay
in your tent, you don't go out, or the sentries,
they're going to fire on you. Well, nothing really
happened that would, you know, when we got any
injuries on our side. So after BIAC, there was a
place called Wewak, and that was a strong base. of
Japanese. So MacArthur figured, hey, we can take
Wewak. We're going to lose some people. So what we
do is just bypass them and isolate them.
Okay. I want to back up on this one something.
The Japanese, this was in March of 1943. The
Japanese wanted to come into New Guinea and take it
over. And the plan was the Japanese wanted to take
over Port Moresby and then use that as a Japanese
base to jump and take over Australia. And General
Kenny says, no way. And MacArthur agreed with him.
I'm talking about General George Kenny. He was a
little guy, but he knew He knew his business. So he
had reconnaissance planes flying through
squalls, through storms, and to see them. And
over, I don't know how far it was, but there was a big
base named Rabaul, R-A-B-A-U-L. And they were
building up Rabaul with troops and ships to come
in. and going to Port Moresby. They had tried to
land at Lay and go over the old Stanley Range. And it
was too steep and it was just jungle. And they
couldn't make it. And then there was a lot of
poisonous snakes and so forth. So they gave up that
idea that they're not going to go across the old
Stanley Range. It's a string of mountains.
and go by ship and take over more space and bypass
everything else that's in between. Okay. Madame
McArthur got the word, 22-ship convoy coming out
of Rabaul. Later it was refuted by Admiral Emmets,
but there were six battleships. I don't know
exactly what they were, but they were cruisers and
destroyers. that were, they were escorting the
troop ships. And when Kenny got the word that
they're on their way, he says, I want everything
that can fly. And man, I tell you, we were day and
night loading up those planes. And the Aussies,
apparently the Aussies were the only ones that had
these flying Catalinas. He said, I want every
Catalina up there to pick up our fliers if they're
down. OK? And so I said, all right. So our Air Force
was already looking for them. And they found them.
And they started bombing. And there was a, I can't
think of the man's name.
He was an officer in the Air Force with the Air
Corps, and he was the one that, I say, I want to use
the word, who invented skip bombing. See? Okay?
You know when you take a flat piece of rock and you
toss it and it goes, okay. And they got this, he had a
squadron of B-25s. And they used the B-25s that
would come down just at, just above the water. And
they'd spawn a troop ship and they would drop this
bomb. And let it bounce toward the troop ship.
Right, exactly. And they had daisy cutters on the
end. Now a daisy cutter is a fuse. The fuses that
were used in the bombs were two types. One that fit
in the nose want to fit in the tail. If the fuse in the
nose failed, the one in the back would discharge
them. Now, before some G.I. decided there was a
need to use these bombs for anti-personnel, and
they wanted the bomb to explode above the ground.
And because when the bomb would hit the ground, it
would go down maybe five or six feet, and then they
would explode. But the effect was not what they
wanted. So this guy decided, this G.I. said, hey,
why don't we extend that fuse? And they called it a
daisy cutter. And when the bomb hits the ground,
it'll go off above the ground. And that's what they
used on those bombs to hit the ship. When they hit
the ship, it made a gaping hole and the water rushed
in. And then there were another squadron of B-25s.
They had a 75-millimeter cannon in the nose, okay?
And just when you had the briefings, you know, they
had 50 calibers. on the side, and there were gates
that where the tracers would meet would be 200
yards. So whenever the tracers would cross on the
target, they let the .25-mm cannon take off, and
the recoil just slowed down the B-25. Well,
anyway, according to the reports we got, the
battle lasted about 20 minutes, and every ship was
sunk. Is this the Battle of the Coral Sea? No. The
Battle of the Bismarck Sea. Oh, Bismarck Sea. 3
March 1943. Okay. Now, the Navy was over there,
close by, for support if they needed. And you know
when you when the ship goes down. There's always a
lot of debris in the water, records, papers and
stuff like that. So, Battle of Nimitz boys, they
picked up everything they could, see. And
MacArthur had already had a report prior to the
battle that there was a 22-ship convoy. Well,
Nimitz's boys got a log that said, it's only 16. So
he brought it over to McCarthy and says, hey,
you've been saying this is a 22-ship convoy. You
saw it. You only saw 16. And they got into a
squabble. And somebody in Washington told them to
back off and leave McCarthy alone. Do you know
about that? Oh, I tell you. And so I left that one
part about when the hostilities started, and
General Kennedy came down. they had a general
there named Strademeyer. And Strademeyer was, I
can't think of a word to describe him, but he was
kind of easy going, slow, and all he had was
reconnaissance flights, that's all. And when
General Kennedy came over, he wanted to go back and
fight the Nips. And he ran into,
Strademeyer was blocking it, I'll use that word.
And so General Kinney, he went on to MacArthur and
said, look, I came over here to fight a war, and I
want to get those nymphs home. Are you going to let
me run that air war, or are you going to let us spend
them on her? And the word was really out. MacArthur
never had anybody talk to him like that. And he
said, okay, George, take it over. And he said,
spend a mile back in the States or somewhere. And he
was out. So General Kennedy took over everything.
And he was the one that had those 6x6s and 4x4 trucks
cut and put half the front end in a C-47, fired up
there, and then the other part in another plane.
And the people up in New Guinea, those vehicles
over here? I don't see no boats coming in to unload
them." Oh, they walked down the road. And back in
Townsville, when the whacks came in, you know, the
whacks, the women, and they were going to a big
dance. You don't have to put this down, but the,
the, the black G.I.s, they wanted to go out there
and beat the whacks, see. And
they went over there, and the other Anglo G.I.s,
they didn't want the black G.I.s to dance with us.
And it was a big fight, and they cut the dancers out.
We had to at
the airstrip. We had a place where they had the
planes parked, you know. And some of those girls
were over there. And somebody said, you know what,
I think those women were prostitutes before they
got in there, because there was something going on
over there on those parked planes. Do you get my
drift? Okay. And it was something, I tell you. And
well, After this battle of the Bismarck Sea, that
killed everything for the Japanese. They
couldn't get to Fort Moresby. So finally they put
us aboard LSTs and we went into Manila. And we were
at what used to be Clark Field. And then there was
Fort Stottsenburg. It was messed up. I mean, it was
bombed and everything else. And then there was
Nichols Field. Nichols Field was a smaller
operation than Clark. And so we were there,
stationed at Clark, again setting up our
ammunition, setting up on top of small arms
weapons. And
we hired, well we didn't do it, the quarter marshal
did. They hired work battalions of local people to
police up the areas and do this and so forth. And
there was a group that could speak Spanish. So I got
around. I was friends with them. These were
Filipinos? Yes, Filipinos.
There were some girls that would come around with
their brothers to pick up laundry. And, you know,
there's always a GI that wants to get, you know, put
their hands on them and say, no, no, Filipino
customs, no touch. And there were trucks going
back and forth for the unloading ships, the docks,
back to camp. And some of these Filipinos wanted to
get someplace, and they would stand on the highway
trying to get a ride. But the GI wouldn't stop. So
these fellas says, you know, let's put the girl
over there, and we hide in the bush. And when he
stopped, we jumped. And we tell them, we tell them,
we want the girl to sit over here with us in the front
seat. And that's the way they got, you know, go back
and forth. And let's see, then we have, when we got
to Manila, then we went to Okinawa. And let's see,
Okinawa, we were, we had, when we wanted some fish,
we'd go to the Quartermaster and get a duck. A duck
was one of those vehicles that looked like a boat.
You could go in the water. And we wanted to go fish,
but we didn't know where to fish, and we didn't know
which were the good fish, because that was
poisonous fish. So we got one of the natives, and
he had a sixth sense. He could tell where the fish
were. So he says, that way, it's right here. And we
get hand grenades, see it? And we throw them in the
water. And pretty soon, and that was the fish. And
we'd have a fish fry. And we got an allowance of
beer, six cans of beer a month. And we didn't care
who made the beer, just a little beer. And how did
you cool it? Well, we had some ammunition boxes,
all metal. And we'd take, you remember those
aerosol bombs for mosquitoes? We put the cancer
beer in there, and one of these pumped it up. And
hey, we closed the lid, and we had some cold beers.
Some were not satisfied. They'd get some peaches
or apple or something, let it ferment, you know,
and they called it jungle juice, and then get drunk
on that. Well, anyway. Where were you when you
heard about the atom bomb? Where were you when you
heard about the atom bomb? The atomic bomb? Oh, the
atom bomb. Okay. In Okinawa. We were in Okinawa.
And we saw our first B-29. And we thought it was a
monster, see? Because we were used to seeing P-38s
and P-40s. And the fighter pilots had a preference
for P-38s because we said, hey, if we If one of our
engines goes out, we can come back on the other one.
We had a pilot named Richard Bong. He flew P-38s. He
was a daring old fool. And General Kenney grounded
him. He had 40 kills to his credit. And he knew that
he had hit others that probably didn't make it to
their base, but they gave him credit for 40. And
someone says, How is it that Bong can shoot so many
airplanes while Neil Kirby and the other two were
just way behind him? He says, well, what he does, he
flies right up to the plane and lets go of those
450s. And he's taking too many chances because
that Japanese pilot may have a wingman or
something that'll come in. Finally, they got Mr.
Bong. But we went back to the States, and he was
found in one of the first jet planes. And he
crashed. Garrett, with a lot, you have a call on
line one. Garrett, with a lot, you have a call on
line one. Oh. And so when the atomic bomb was
dropped and everything, they started releasing
the guys that had the most time overseas. Where did
you all hear? Where were you when you heard about
that bomb being dropped? Naha, Okinawa. And what
was your reaction? What did you all think? Was it a
surprise? Well, yes, we were surprised and we were
happy because now we're going home. And who's
going home? The guys that have been here the most,
the longest. With the point system? Yeah, point
system. So when did you get back to San Antonio?
That's a good question.
The twenty-fifth day of October, 1945. That's
right. And you started back to work when? Well, let
me see. I didn't start back to work
goodnight. It must have been In late January. Of
46? Yeah. And what job did you get? The same job I had
before. And
so they were, it was still the same old place, but
there was a shortage of parts. I remember that.
And, but, yeah, now, Mr. Feeble was just glad to get
me back, and he, you see, the veterans, if you
recall, they would give them preference to give
them their old jobs back, see, and I just fit it in,
just. When did you meet this special young lady?
Well, that's another story. When I was up there at
Payne Field, there was this fellow, Richard
Bazan. And of course, going up there to Everett,
Washington, there was hardly any Hispanics over
there. And in our company, we had, let's see, one,
two, three, three. And one of them, two of them were
from San Antonio, one from Beeville. And this
fellow,
I forget his name now, he was real dark, and he could
pass for an Indian. So when we go to Town Hall Pass,
somebody, oh, I'll stop at some bridge, you know,
and get a couple of beers. And the bartender will
look at this guy, and he refused to serve him beer,
because he says, in Washington, it's against the
law to sell beer to Indians. No, he's not. So one of
us had to buy the beer, didn't give it to him. He
says, don't let him see you drinking it. Okay. So,
uh, the, uh, uh, Mr. Feller, Richard Poisson from
Bealeville, on mail calling, he would get
letters, you see, and here I am, and nobody was
writing to me. And so I was the same. You recall,
there was the newspapers building up to promote
pen pals. You don't know them, but they write, tell
you what's going on at home. So they gave me five
names, and I wrote to the girls. Hey, I got some
answers. It was fine. And this kept up. Finally,
Four of them kind of slowed down, you know, and they
quit. But Rachel, my wife, she kept on riding. All
during the war, she kept on riding, answering my
rail. And you had not seen her yet? No. We were
strangers. And she had an aunt in San Antonio that
she would visit on. And I said, would you give my
mother a call or visit with her and tell her that
we're riding and I'm OK? So that kind of gave her
some sense of relief Yes. So she'd go over there and
visit with my mother. So when I came home, you see, I
said, I got to meet that lady and thank her for what
she'd done and for writing to me and all this, you
see. And that was all. I was going to say thank you,
goodbye, but something happened there, you see. I
can't describe it. When I started to get off the
bus, I said, you know, I like what I see. And so I took
her out. First I went to see her aunt and get her
blessings, you know, that they would allow for me
to take her out and suffer. I brought her back in a
decent hour. And I would visit with her when she
would come to. Or I would, I had to borrow a car. from
the company, you know, as an old 41 Chevrolet. And
I'd drive all the way to Beville, which was about 90
miles from San Antonio. And I'd go there and visit
with them. And so one thing led to the other, you
know. And so I asked her to marry me, and she said
yes. When did you all get married? Fifteenth day of
December, 1945. Forty-five or six? Forty-five.
This was a quick thing now. Oh, okay. See, because I
got out in October. Okay. October the 25th. So you
got married in less than two months. Yeah. And so I
had heard gossip, Richard's getting married, it
won't last. She hardly knows the boy, and vice
versa. Well, it was something because the other
girls, her sisters, she had five sisters, and they
got married, and their marriages broke up except
on one. They sold it together. But on our marriage,
they didn't give it, we said, it's not going to
last. So she moved to San Antonio. and you
continued your job, and then what caused you to
start thinking about going to college? Well, I
knew General Motors parts like an open book. I had a
good memory to remember, and you know, every year
when the new models come in, They always,
something goes wrong, the heat indicator doesn't
work, the speedometer doesn't work, or
whatever. There's a defective part, and under the
warranty that's placed on the car, the dealer's
supposed to replace it, see? And then the dealer
would get it back to these defective parts and
sends them back to the factory and gets...